#summary Fast and Robust Generation of Feature Maps for Region-Based Visual Attention

= Overview =

<wiki:toc depth="1">


= Details =

== Abstract ==

 This article propose clustering prior to the process of visual attention in contrast to previous methods using late clustering.

 Color contrast map, symmetry map, and size contrast map are constructed as formal feature channels

 The solution can be efficiently integrated into main stream of machine vision for limited computing resources such as mobile robots.

== Introduction ==

 Requirement: a robust intelligent algorithms for analysis and recognition 
 Solution: integrate feature maps for color contrast, orientation, eccentricity, symmetry and size for a region-based model.
 It accelerates the internal processes of attention and helps to bring attention into more harmony with machine vision systems. 
== Problem Definition ==

 Both approaches: linear center round / frequency domain filter loses actual shapes of objects.
 Feature computation are computationally heavy while coarse scales may lose some important details
 The already known object inhibition requires the exact shape.
 Solution 
 * Obtain the cluster of pixels belong to each other
 * Apply the attention related procedures on these regions.
 Need to develop an efficient and robust methods for construction of early feature maps using existing regions

== Existing methods ==
=== Pixel-based approach ===
 Leads to fuzzy activity clusters
=== Frequency Domain approach ===
 Leads to fuzzy activity clusters
=== Region-based approach ===
 The region-based techniques lack robustness and ultimately blend feature maps of pixel-based and frequency domain techniques. They are rarely implemented in existing methods.
 
== Proposed methodology ==
=== Color Contrast Saliency ===
=== Size Saliency ===
=== Symmetry Feature ===
=== Orientation and Eccentricity Feature ===
=== Saliency Maps of Symmetry, Orientation, and Eccentricity ===
== Results ==

== Discussion ==
== Conclusion ==