#summary IACSIT 2010 Conference Summary - Experience
#labels Deprecated

= Overview =
<wiki:toc max_depth="1" />

= Introduction =

IACSIT 2010 is organized in Chengdu, China from 9th to 12th, July, 2010, and there are 11 people from VIER group, UNMC (including me) participating in this conference. After finishing my first ever science & technology conference in the position of PhD student, I write this conference report.

= Experience =

== Conference Organization ==
=== Time-line ===

 * 10th: 
  * Register for the IACSIT Conference in the university of science and technology, chengdu, china.
  * Keynote Speakers - Nothing is memorable in those key-note speech.
  * Banquet - grand dinner for conference speakers which expresses the waste and and difference between rich and poor classes in China. It deeply shows the unbalance of wealth distribution in modern Chinese society. 

 * 11th: I did my presentation in Session ICCSIT 22 - Session Chair: Prof. Gautam Bandhopadhyay.

== Myself == 

 * Slide content: 3 general parts are too many and general for 10 minutes talk. In 10 minutes talk, only 1 or 2 topics should be discussed in details.

 * Preparation: slide designs have animations, but too details and do not highlight important parts of the paper. Animations should be prepared carefully in order to attract attentions of viewers and express strong algorithm points.

 * Presentation skill: not so fluent English, waste time of controlling slides by mouse and keyboard (*Presentation Tools*). 
 
=== Other speakers ===

Most of speakers except those from UNMC are not interested in Image and Video Processing Technology; therefore, their talks do not benefit my knowledge much and via verse. It is blamed for the disability of conference organizers which would classify and arrange speakers who interest in the same topic in the same calendar. However, there are speakers who impress me by their skills and preparation.

Wai Chong: experienced speakers with good english skill, and good presentation design as well as time estimation.

Lee Seng: professional speakers with good english skill, and good presentation design especially in animation for explaining his algorithm.

Yu-Cheng Norm Lien: good speaker with good english skill, and medium presentation design.

Jia Hao: good speaker with good english skill, and medium presentation design (*excellent outline slide*).

= Conclusion =

IACSIT Conference is not well-organized and it does not benefit me much.


Add your content here.  Format your content with:
  * Text in *bold* or _italic_
  * Headings, paragraphs, and lists
  * Automatic links to other wiki pages