#summary Towards a Proactive Biologically-inspired Advanced Driver Assistance System Summary
= Introduction =

<wiki:toc depth="1"/>

= Details =

== Abstract == 
 * Mimicking the known signal-processing principles in the human brain 
 * The proposed system is based on the attention principle: <b> An early task-dependent pre-selection </b> on interesting image regions
 * The behavior control module has a simple structure, but allows performing various tasks.
 * The complexity is distributed over the system in form of <i> local control loops </i> following human cognition aspects.

== Introduction ==
 * Attention subsystem is the center of overal system
 * Proof: A purely saliency-basedf attention generation can assist the driver during emergency situation
 * A proposed system has low complexity system control strategies
 * Complexity is distributed over the system in form of local control loops
 
== Related Works ==
 * German Transregional Collaborative Research Center "Cognitive Automobiles" 
 * ADAS allows a simple bottom-up attention-based decomposition of road scenes but without incorporating object or prior knowledge.

== System Description == 
 Five major parts:
 * "what" pathway analyzes details of a single sport in the image.
 * "where" pathway performs the localization and tracking of a small number of objects.
 * "static domain specific tasks"
 * "environmental interaction"
 * "system control module"

=== A. The "what" pathway === 
 A saliency-based map is constructed from 
 * RGBY color space
 * Difference of Gaussian 
 * Gabor filter kernels

 The top-down attention can be tuned task independently by applying TD weights with the threshold = Kconj * Max(Fi).
 The bottom-up (BU) coefficients are set object-unspecifically to detect unexpected dangerous scenes.
 The system takes the current scene characteristics into account to determine the optimal TD weight set.
 Compute the maximum on the current saliency map S total.
 Get the FOA by generic region growing based segmentation.
 Internal information fusion processes improve the performance of system modules.
 
 
== Summary and Outlook ==

  An integrated, advanced driver assistance system that relies on human-like cognitive processing principles.
 Based on top-down links modulation the attention task-dependently, the used internal 3D representation is highly flexible system. 
 